Fed engineer PR reviewer checklist (#104285)
department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/approved-reviewers-request.md

---
name: Fed. engineer PR approver checklist
about: Checklist to ensure you are prepared to become a PR approver for your team's code
title: ''
labels: ['']

> assignees: ''

Author: How are we tracking if someone fills this out? Are we thinking a fed eng. comes through support and is handed this template to fill out? If that's the case, maybe this is fine and a label and assignee aren't needed.

Author: I ended up not changing anything here. We can make improvements if we need to later 🙂

---
# PR Approver Preparation Checklist

Certain federal engineers can get approval to review their team's code and bypass a Platform PR review. Use this checklist to ensure you are prepared to become a PR approver for your team's code.

**Engineer Name:**

**Team Name & [GitHub Team](https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/teams):**
<!-- Name of your team and code-owning GitHub team(s) -->

## Training

> - [ ] Thoroughly review the [Code review guide for vets-api](https://vfs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/BCP/pages/3155394563/Code+review+guide+for+vets-api).

Reviewer: QUESTION: Is this only for the API or does this reviewer also include the website as well?

Reviewer 2: The intent will be the other repos as well.

Author: @mdewey  good question. I tried to make this template as generic as possible so it could be for the frontend _and_ backend, but I don't think we're quite there yet. i.e. there's no code review guide for vets website.

- [ ] Review and save this [PR tips page](https://vfs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/BCP/pages/3918135327/PR+tips+for+federal+engineers) for details once you start reviewing and merging PRs.

> - [ ] I understand I am responsible for the code my team deploys.

Reviewer 3: What does this mean in practice?

Reviewer 3: I understand that this is a bigger discussion than a single PR, but I would love to see more [embrace the red](https://digital.va.gov/oit-year-in-review-2024/#brxe-guyozt) mentality and less focus on blame, both for federal engineers and for platform folks! Perhaps something like:

- [ ] I understand that I committing to provide leadership for issues that may arise as a result of changes I approve. I will lead blameless postmortems and champion remediations and improvements that are identified.

Side note: is the idea here for federal engineers to provide expedited reviews as requested, or to become the primary/only reviewers for given teams? (The first was my understanding)

Reviewer 2: We can change the term from blame to responsible if you want. Currently in the end, any code that gets into vet-api, vets-website or devops is Platform responsibility which in turn means any issue that happens w/ that code becomes Platform responsibility to address, etc.

The change to teams being more responsible and accountable to their apps is a movement to shift this needle in several ways... one of which having fed engineers aligned w/ VFS team and owning the code for those apps.

Reviewer 2: As far as fed engineers only being involved with expedited reviews as requested or being the primary/only reviewers.

My understanding is the goal is not just expedited PRs but to move away from Platform having to review all PRs in general. Platform is pretty far removed from the ~50 apps teams or so that are committing code regularly so while we can put eyes on them to effectiveness is going to vary greatly due to limited resources we have to support such a scale as well as having the depth of context related to any specific teams items they are working to deliver on.

Author: I like your suggestion. I'll add it!

> Side note: is the idea here for federal engineers to provide expedited reviews as requested, or to become the primary/only reviewers for given teams? (The first was my understanding)

The second one. But we still recommend getting another teammate's review, so the fed. eng. isn't the _only_ review.

Author: ✅ changed it to:
- [ ] I understand that by approving changes, I am responsible for leading efforts to address any issues that may arise. This includes facilitating blameless postmortems and driving the implementation of necessary remediations and improvements.

## Tools and Access

- [ ] I have access to the necessary repositories.
- [ ] I have the required permissions to approve and merge PRs within the repository my team works in.
- [ ] I can view a list of open PRs needing my approval. Here's an [example query](https://github.com/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+NOT+WIP+in%3Atitle+team-review-requested%3Adepartment-of-veterans-affairs%2Fbackend-review-group). Replace `backend-review-group` with your code-owning GitHub Team and modify the query as needed ([GH search docs](https://docs.github.com/en/search-github/searching-on-github/searching-issues-and-pull-requests)).

## Communication and Collaboration

> - [ ] Meet with the Community of Practice (CoP). Reach out in the CoP Slack channel for a CoP meeting invite.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [ ] I have met with the Community of Practice (CoP). (Reach out in the CoP Slack channel for a CoP meeting invite)
```

Author: thanks!

- [ ] I have discussed my role as a PR approver with my team.
- [ ] I understand I can reach out in the CoP Slack channel with PR questions.

## Approval

> - [ ] Approved by Bill Chapman

Reviewer 3: Perhaps the best alternative is `Approved by OCTO Engineering CoP Director` - perhaps also the Platform Engineering OCTO lead could approve?

> - [ ] Approved by Bill Chapman

Author: ✅ changed it to:
- [ ] Approved by OCTO Engineering Leadership (comment with name of approver).
